Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
Ans:  Programming language is a formal language comprising a set of instructions that produce various kinds of output.
What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Ans: All the Java-based Applications and Applets are developed using the JDK. It consists of a number of software components.
What is IDE?
Ans: A Java IDE is a software application which enables users to more easily write and debug Java programs.
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Ans: Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans, JDeveloper, MyEclipse, BlueJ, JCreator, DrJava, jGRASP, JSource.
Explain the entire java life cycle.
what is class?
Ans: Class are a blueprint or a set of instructions to build a specific type of object.
What is object?
Ans: Objects have states and behaviors.
What is the entry point of an application?
Ans: A Java application is a public Java class with a main() method. The main() method is the entry point into the application.
Why main is static?
Ans: Java program's main method has to be declared static because,Without having declared main method static ,
 program will successfully compile but won't execute and report error at run time.
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Ans: Object class is the superclass of all classes.
Ans: Path is used define where the system can find the executables(.exe) files and classpath is used to
 specify the location . class files.
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
Ans: No, we can't create an object of an abstract class.The reference variable is used to refer to
 the objects of derived classes (subclasses of abstract class). An abstract class means
 hiding the implementation and showing the function definition to the user is known as Abstract class.
what is Access Specifier?
Ans: Access specifiers are keywords in object-oriented languages that set the accessibility of classes,
 methods, and other members In Java.
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Ans: OPP is Object-Oriented Programming. They are an abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism.
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Ans: API means Application Programming Interface, e.g. Facebook.
which is a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each other.
Ans:  Application Programming Interface (API), which is a software intermediary that allows
 two applications to talk to each other.
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
Ans: Java doesn't allow multiple inheritance to avoid the ambiguity caused by it.
One of the example of such problem is the diamond problem that occurs in multiple inheritance.
What is method overloading and when it happens?
Ans: Method Overloading is a feature that allows a class to have more than one method having the same name,
if their argument lists are different. It is similar to constructor overloading in Java,
that allows a class to have more than one constructor having different argument lists.
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Ans: When an exception occurs, that exception occurred is handled by catch block associated with it.
Every try block should be immediately followed either by a catch block or finally block.
a catch statement involves declaring the type of exception you are trying to catch.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
Ans: In Java, static keyword is mainly used for memory management. It can be used with variables, methods,
blocks and nested classes. It is a keyword which is used to share the same variable or method of a given class.
Basically, static is used for a constant variable or a method that is same for every instance of a class.
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Ans: In Java, the final keyword can be used while declaring an entity. Using the final keyword means that
the value can't be modified in the future. This entity can be - but is not limited to - a variable,
a class or a method.
What is final, finally and finalize?
Ans: Final is access modifier in Java. Finally is a block in Java used for Exception Handling.
Finalize is a method in Java used for Garbage Collection.
What is a constructor ?
Ans.: A constructor in Java is a special method.
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Ans: There can be multiple constructors in a class. However,
the parameter list of the constructors should not be same. This is known as constructor overloading.
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Ans:  If a class does not explicitly declare any,
the Java compiler automatically provides a no-argument constructor, called the default constructor.
What is "this" keyword in java ?
Ans: The this keyword refers to the current object in a method or constructor.
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
Ans: super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable.
super can be used to invoke immediate parent class method. super() can be used to invoke immediate parent
class constructor.
What is JVM stand for ?
Ans: The JVM manages system memory and provides a portable execution environment for Java-based applications.
IDG / Oracle / Vasabii / Getty Images. The Java Virtual Machine is a program whose purpose is to execute
other programs.
Is JVM platform independent?
Ans: Java is a platform independent language.
JVM, or Java Virtual Machine is used to identify the platform on which Java is being run.
What version of java are you using?
Ans: The Java version can be found in the Java Control Panel.
Under the General tab in the Java Control Panel, the version is available through the About section.
What is JAR stand for ?
Ans: Java ARchive is a package file format typically used to aggregate many Java class files
and associated metadata and resources (text, images, etc.) into one file for distribution.
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Ans: JDK is a software development kit whereas JRE is a software bundle that allows Java program to run,
whereas JVM is an environment for executing bytecode. The full form of JDK is Java Development Kit,
while the full form of JRE is Java Runtime Environment, while the full form of JVM is Java Virtual Machine.
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Ans: JRE is the container, JVM is the content.
Java Runtime Environment contains JVM, class libraries, and other supporting files.
What is compile time and run time?
Ans: Compile time and runtime are two distinctly different times during the active life of a computer program.
Compile time is when the program is compiled; runtime is when it executes.
What is heap?
Ans: The Java heap is the area of memory used to store objects instantiated by applications running on the JVM.
How java manage it's memory?
Ans: In Java, memory management is the process of allocation and de-allocation of objects,
 called Memory management.
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Ans: String is immutable whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable classes.
StringBuffer is thread-safe and synchronized whereas StringBuilder is not.
That's why StringBuilder is faster than StringBuffer.
What is Singleton class?
Ans: In software engineering, the singleton pattern is a software design pattern that restricts the
instantiation of a class to one "single" instance.
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Ans: Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream.
when to use transient variable in java?
Ans: Transient in Java is used to mark the member variable not
to be serialized when it is persisted to streams of bytes.
Difference between while and do..while loop?
Ans: do-while loop is similar to while loop, however there is a difference between them: In while loop,
condition is evaluated first and then the statements inside loop body gets executed,
on the other hand in do-while loop, statements inside do-while gets executed first and then the condition
is evaluated.
What is Enum?
Ans: An enum is a special "class" that represents a group of constants.
What is Iterator?
Ans: The primary purpose of an iterator is to allow a user to process every element of a container
while isolating the user from the internal structure of the container.
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Ans: int is a primitive data type which takes 32 bits(4 bytes) to store.
Why is String Immutable in Java?
Ans: The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in the String pool.
Mutable String would produce two different hash codes at the time of insertion and retrieval.
What is constructor chaining in Java?
Ans: The process of invoking a sequence of constructors upon initialization of a class object is called
constructor chaining. Constructor chaining is useful when you want to invoke multiple constructors,
one after another, by initializing only one instance.
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Ans: The just-in-time (JIT) inventory system is a management strategy that aligns raw-material orders
from suppliers directly with production schedules.
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Ans: Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase
or decrease in size while the application runs. When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected.
During the garbage collection objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects.
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Ans: No, Garbage collection does not guarantee that a program will not run out of memory.
The purpose of garbage collection (GC) is to identify and discard objects that are no longer needed by
a Java program, so that their resources can be reclaimed and reused.
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Ans: The Heap Space contains all objects are created, but Stack contains any reference to those objects.
Objects stored in the Heap can be accessed throughout the application.
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
Ans: Reflection is a feature in the Java programming language.
what is multithreading in java?
Ans: MULTITHREADING in Java is a process of executing two or more threads simultaneously to maximum
utilization of CPU. Multithreaded applications execute two or more threads run concurrently.
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Ans: Synchronized keyword in Java is used to provide mutually exclusive access to a shared resource
with multiple threads in Java.
What is Framework?
Ans: In computer programming, a software framework is an abstraction in which software providing generic
functionality can be selectively changed by additional user-written code,
thus providing application-specific software.
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Ans: JBehave, JUnit, Serenity, TestNG, Selenide, Gauge, Geb, Spock, HttpUnit, JWebUnit.
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
Ans: JUnit is an open-source framework used to trigger and write tests.
TestNG is a Java-based framework that is an upgraded option for running tests.
JUnit does not support to run parallel tests. TestNG can run parallel tests.
What are the dependencies for this project?
Ans.:A project dependency is a logical, constraint-based or preferential relationship between two
activities or tasks such that the completion or the initiation of one is reliant on the completion
 or initiation of the other.
what is dependency injection in java?
Ans: Dependency injection (DI) is the concept in which objects get other required objects from outside.
What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Ans:Static binding uses Type information for binding while Dynamic binding uses Objects to resolve binding.








